A 94% HDI is the shortest interval that contains 94% of the probability mass of a posterior distribution
Gelman-Rubin statistic R -> check if chains are exploring the same distribution


y_init is p(0)


 What we plot: All 4 cells — cell 0 (baseline) + cells 1-3 (post-injection). That's the full cleaned EEG, all 342 trials for S01.       
                                                                                                                                         
  Why the t=20min plasma point is missing: The last plasma sample for S01 is at 20 min post-injection. On our sequential time scale, that
   maps to 20 + 4.25 = 24.25 min — but the EEG data only spans 17.1 min of sequential time (342 trials × 3s). So the last plasma dot     
  falls off the right edge of the plot.                                                                                                  
                                                                  
  Why the EEG is shorter than 20 min: The raw recording spans ~27.5 min of wall-clock time, but a lot of that is gaps — artifact-rejected
   segments, the injection gap (~5 min), and inter-trial gaps. Only the clean 3-second epochs survive in data_trials3s.mat. Those 342
  clean trials = 17.1 min of sequential time, even though the actual experiment lasted ~25 min post-baseline. 



  -exclusion of both subject 3 (flat LZ experience) and subject 9 (missing data). From this
point onwards, subject 11 will also be excluded from all the experiments outlined beyond
this section


The observed plasma data for Pi was intentionally excluded
due to complications on several aspects: its difficulty of cross-subject normalization, data
sparsity challenges and undesirable convergence experiences (see Appendix B for details).
Therefore, the design of the Bayesian model graph for a pooled two compartment model is
shown in figure 18. Given the Bayesian inference consider each parameter being probabilistic in nature, parameters k0, k1, k2 and y init are all random variables. y init represents
P(0) which is the initial DMT concentration in plasma at time = 0. Each of the model
parameter has a prior distribution defined in the graph node. For example, k0, k1, k2
∼ HalfCauchy .
Moreover, the variables y1 and y2 are derived through a deterministic computational
process involving two intermediary variables, alpha and beta which in turn are contingent
upon the rate parameters. Note that alpha and beta are merely middle layer variables which
have no biological interpretations. Instead they are essential components of the analytical
solution to the previous ODEs 13 (see section 5.2 for details).
Last, the plasma concentrations, represented as variable plasma and LZc values, represented as variable lz, are modelled to follow normally distributed priors as plasma ∼
N (y1, plasma sigma) lz ∼ N (y2, lz sigma). Finally, the model fitting process exclusively
leverages variable lz as the observed variable, which is shown in the grey box


Trace is the output of the MCMC sampling

python -m src.paper_model.run_pipeline --observe-plasma --draws 1000 --chains 2
Available flags:
  - --observe-plasma — fit both LZc + plasma
  - --plasma-only — fit plasma only (no LZc)
  - Neither — fit LZc only (original behavior)
  - --load-trace


b(t) is stimated with lzc, so all units are lzc units. we can not predict mg/ml

- esta fiteando el modelo con un gap de tiempo en el medio (creo que eso esta mal)